hey guys welcome to another edition in
the explainer series in today's video
we'll take a look at how to solve
metrics based questions in pm interviews
if you haven't checked out the previous
videos as part of the explainer series
do make sure to check them out put down
in the comments below what kind of
videos you'd want us to create and if
you want to stay up to date with all the
cool content that will be bringing do
make sure to subscribe to the channel
and now back to the video metrics based
questions generally come in two types
first is the root cause analysis
questions and the second is the goal
setting based questions in today's video
we'll be looking at goal setting based
questions a typical question in this
particular bucket is going to come in
the form of how do you define the
success metrics or goals for a
particular product it could be a product
or a feature or it could even be a
company this could also be followed up
with a root cause analysis question
where you'd be asked to diagnose an
unusual behavior or a drop in one of the
metrics that you've just defined and
diagnose what the root cause could be
any time this question is given there is
a six step framework that you can follow
for this particular question uh the
first step is to clarify the first thing
you want to clarify is what exactly is
the interviewer looking for because
there is a big difference between what
is a goal and what is a metric a goal is
something that has a metric a target and
a time frame for example your goal could
be that you want to increase monthly
active users by 20
by the end of 2021 and in this the
metric is monthly active users you have
to clarify whether the interviewer wants
you to focus more on goals or whether
the interview wants you to focus more on
metrics as such the next thing you want
to clarify is what exactly does the
company or product or feature does
in one sentence you can just define what
it does or you can even clarify this
with the interviewer the last thing you
also want to clarify or talk about is
the mission and vision of this company
so that both you and the interviewer are
actually on the same page in terms of
your understanding of what the company
does and what it's all about
step number two is to think about what
stage in the product life cycle is this
company in at this particular point
based on this stage and product life
cycle the goal that the company will be
trying to optimize for will be different
for example if the company is just one
or two years old then it's probably in
its growth phase and as a result of
which it wants to maybe optimize for
adoption and acquisition over other
metrics like revenue monetization and so
on if the company is a little bit older
than that then probably the metric or
the phase that they want to optimize for
is engagement and not much of adoption
or acquisition you have to define which
particular phase the company is trying
to optimize for at this particular point
and focus more on this particular phase
the next step is to think about what the
product goal or the customer goal is
for example in whatsapp the customer
goal is to be able to send messages to
friends and family in a safe and
encrypted manner now this is going to be
very important when you start defining
your north star metric because at the
end of the day a north star has to marry
your customer objective and what the
company tries to achieve once you're
done with all the clarifications and in
setting the goals it's now time to go
through each of the phases in the funnel
and list down metrics for each face here
what you need to do is you need to
understand the key actions that the user
will be performing on your product and
which ones you want to encourage or
discourage for example if you're netflix
and you're trying to optimize for
acquisition or adoption then the key
action that you probably want to
encourage is more number of people
downloading the app more number of
people signing up to the subscription
plan and even more number of people
starting or completing their first tv
show or movie on the app here in this
step depending on the goal that you've
chosen in step number two you can decide
which phases in the customer journey you
would want to focus more on for example
if you decided to go with acquisition as
the goal then you can focus more on
adoption acquisition and conversion and
not much on revenue or monetization
which come in the later parts of the
fund two more points to remember here is
that one it's always good to set metrics
that actually have a time frame attached
with them because in real life you
really want to monitor how well your
metric is performing either quarter and
quarter or month on month and the second
point is that if you need to bucketize
your metrics or categorize them into
different buckets based on customer
groups you could do that as well the
next step is to prioritize amongst the
metrics that you've chosen your goal
here is to have one not star metric and
four to five l1 supporting metrics when
you prioritize remember that your not
star metric should be a broad indicator
of success and not something that is
complex or difficult to measure or even
understand another tip here is to
prioritize those metrics that you can
actually take some action on for example
if you're whatsapp and the goal you're
trying to optimize for is engagement
then one of the things you'd want to
measure is how well your users are using
the richer forms of messaging like gifs
stickers emojis etc here one thing you'd
probably want to measure is total number
of emojis just stickers sent
in a time period or a better metric in
this case could be the total number of
emojis gif stickers sent per user in a
particular time period adding the per
user to the metric actually makes it a
little bit more actionable and gives you
much more information on what exactly is
going on once you're done with this step
the last step is to critique your own
metrics and pick counter metrics if
needed what you do here is you take a
look at each of the metrics that you've
prioritized and think of any ways in
which these metrics could mislead you or
any loopholes that these metrics could
have let me take an example let's say
you're tracking the number of people who
actually sign up to your product from
the number of people who actually
download the particular product so the
ratio you're tracking is number of
signups by number of downloads let's say
for the first month you have 100 people
who are downloading your app and out of
that only 30 people are actually signing
up for your product and in month 2 you
have just 50 people who are downloading
your app and out of the 50 25 people are
signing up for your product now if you
measure this ratio you get 30 in the
first month and you get 50 in the second
month looking at the ratio alone it kind
of tells us that we're actually on the
right track but in fact when we dig a
little bit deeper we know that it's not
the case so this metric could actually
mislead us into believing something that
is actually not true in this case a good
counter metric that you could add to
this is total number of downloads and
total number of signups in a particular
time period so the above six step
process is how you approach any metric
space questions as usual a reference
sheet is attached below if you have any
questions put them down in the comments
below and we'll make sure you get them
answered if you like the video do give a
thumbs up and subscribe to the channel
and until the next video bye
[Music]
you